=head1 Qt Word Trainer

QVoc is a simple word trainer written in C++/Qt.

L<Git repository|https://github.com/pippijn/gvoc>

It was specifically designed for learning Chinese, because I don't need any more
than that, at the moment.  Modifying it to support other languages and word
lists is trivial. By keeping it simple, QVoc has a neglegible startup time and
can therefore be started anytime you want to study your foreign language.


=head2 Using QVoc

After loading the word lists, which are the Chinese word lists for the HSK level
1 and 2 exams, the words are shuffled and you will be confronted with a Chinese
word along with its pinyin (phonetic alphabet for Chinese characters).  The
trainer will expect you to write the English translation. The word lists have a
set of acceptable solutions, so for a word such as 四 (sì), acceptable solutions
might be "4" or "four". The solution is case insensitive.

=for img images/initial.png Using the word trainer

You can choose to switch to English, after which point you will be presented an
English word to be translated to Chinese. You may either enter pinyin or Chinese
characters. Special phonetics are ignored, such that you may enter "si" instead
of "sì" when asked about "four".

=for img images/english.png English to Chinese translation

After entering the correct translation, you get one point and the word will not
be asked in the next round. If you make a mistake, the word will be asked for
the next three rounds. If you don't know the answer, you can skip the question
by requesting an answer using the C<Answer> button or by hitting the return key
without entering anything. The word is then marked as "skipped" and will be
asked again, next time. Note that you can switch to English and back to get the
solution, as well, if you want to cheat, but do note that this harms only you
and nobody else (I have this much discipline, so I didn't bother protecting
myself against cheating).

=for img images/mistake.png Doing it wrong (huanying means welcome)

Some words also have a hint attached to them. You may click the C<Hint> button
at no cost.

=for img images/hint.png Hints in Chinese characters and pinyin

There may also be more than one hint for a single word. If you still don't know
the answer after the first hint, you may click the C<Hint> button again. Hints
are not random, so you can cycle through them.

=for img images/hint2.png Multiple hints for a single word

When all words have been asked, a report will be displayed. This report will
always be measure percentages with respect to the last cycle. Thus, the second
cycle may have a dramatically worse score, because you will be asked the words
you didn't know the first time.

=for img images/report.png Score report after each round


=head2 About the implementation

=head3 Word and hint lists

In order to keep the implementation simple, QVoc does not use a configuration
file. Instead, the application constructor contains an array of word list file
names, currently at C<["hsk1.txt", "hsk2.txt"]>. The word lists have the
following format:

   # comments start with #
   # Chinese word,         pinyin,        primary translation; secondary translations
   家,                     jiā,           home
   上,                     shàng,         up; on; on top of
   下,                     xià,           down; under; below

The hints are stored in a single file called C<"hints.txt"> with the following
format:

   # comments again start with #
   # Chinese word, hint text, hint text in pinyin
   欢迎
   ,       欢迎来上海。
   ,       huānyíng lái shànghǎi.

   # You may add more hints to a single word by repeating the word:
   欢迎
   ,       欢迎你们来德国。
   ,       huānyíng nǐmen lái déguó.

The files are line- and comma-based. In the current implementation, that means
that in the word lists, the Chinese word is the text until the first comma, the
pinyin is the text until the second comma and the English translations are the
text after the second comma and before a newline. The hints file is read
analogously.

=head3 Mistakes and skipped words

A mistake will cause the word to be asked again for the next three cycles. A
skipped word is asked once in the next round. I decided not to weigh words with
many mistakes more heavily. I also decided not to delete known words from the
list, because repetition is a good thing, even for words you do know. After all
words have been correctly entered (some of them 3 times), the word list is
shuffled and all words are asked again.
